I'm going to talk a little about,
replication, reproducibility.
And I think in a lot of,
circumstances, people tend to use these
words interchangeably.
But for the purpose of this talk,
[UNKNOWN].
There's going to be a distinction.
So, when I think, when I think about
replication, I think
we talk about like the usual thing that
happens in science.
The purpose of replication is to address,
in my
opinion, the kind of validity of a
scientific claim, right?
So if you say that x is related to y.
The first question is well is this claim
true?
So you have to replicate it in another
study or a series of other studies.
With new investigators collecting new data
using different
alloquital methods, laboratory instruments
whatever it may be.
And you have a bunch of replications and
no one can sign, no one
can find the same thing now you think
okay, well that's probably not true.
But if everyone finds the same thing,
roughly the same thing, in independent
studies, then you think okay, that's
probably a reasonable claim.
So replication's kind of how we've always
done things.
And it's still, I think, the
ultimate standard for strengthening
scientific evidence.
So that's replication.
Reproducibility in case you haven't heard
the term is y referred
to as kind of saying the validity of the
data analysis right?
So here you have situations where data are
collected and you analyze with someone
else and
they say something like x is related to y.
So here the idea is that you have two
investigators but you
look at the same data and, and you used
the same methods, perhaps.
See if, you know, what they claimed is
actually produced from the data that, and
the analysis.
So the real question, I think the question
here is not so much, Is the claim true?
But really, Can we trust this analysis?
Okay?
So that's kind of, in, what I see, the,
the key question
of reproducibility tries to address.
Can we take their approach, apply to their
data, and get the same thing that they've
gotten?
And I think this is key.
A reproducibility is, is particularly hard
in my area
of work in, in which replication is just
not possible.
So this is where I'm starting.
And just so, I think some background
everyone's familiar with this
is, there's been a lot of talk about
reproducibility in recent years.
Some of the transars just have, a lot of
stages that can't replicated they're huge.
I switched edimology and have these 25
year covert studies that just can't
be replicated in a reasonable amount of
time.
There's a lot of technology, which is
affecting the rate of data collection.
The complexity is very high.
You have these, kind of, databases that
people are
just merging together like crazy, I'm one
of those people.
And I've seen a lot of these data used off
label.
So for example you have administrative
data sets that are being used
for health studies and things like that so
this is very common.
And then because it's inexpensive
computing
power is very sophisticated now so
we can do very kid of complex analysis on
just small data sets.
And so, and then for every field x, there
is a computational x.
So.
To sum up the results, so basic analysis
can be very difficult to, to
describe now, in just kind of like your
standard method section in a journal.
Oftentimes there's very heavy
computational requirements that
are thrust on people with very little
training.
And so just a little bit of the context
that kind of, from where coming, I,
I think, you think of the range of kind of
computational ability from low to high.
You know, most of the people in the room
are over here.
All the people in the room are over here,
maybe, you know, Jeff's over here.
[LAUGH] But there's a whole slew of people
on this end of the spectrum.
Who are doing computational, who have to
do computational work for, whether they
like it or not, and the reasons they've
got all this data coming in.
So and so that can lead to problems.
You can have errors introduced into
long-term analysis pipelines.
And you can't tell people what you've done
in a reasonable
amount of space.
That complicates the transfer of
knowledge.
So in many cases, there is a sense that
complicated analyses can't be trusted.